# YT/IG Downloader
#### Video Demo:  <URL https://rumble.com/v3zrju1-harvard-cs50-final-project..html>
#### Description:
	I posted on rumble because video was took down by YouTube for spreading unauthorised access to software and that is against their Community Guidelines. I could not write anywhere that it is for educational purpose only and that I need to upolad it and send it as a proof that I did my final project. Hopefully Rumble will not take it down. 

	YT/IG Downloader is the web app that allows you to download posts from instagram and videos form YouTube. It is useful when you need access to YouTube video or ig post without internet connection or you need the video or post to use them later for example in video editing. 
	When the website loads and you scroll down you can see 2 input places. After choosing YouTube or instagram downloader you enter link and clink „Download”. This sends information to the server. The video is downloaded to the server, zipped if needed and sent to the user.  After the file is sent, the files on the server side are removed. Unfortunately I did not manage to create a downloader that would download straight to the user without creating files in the server. Pytube library did not allow it. This creates an issue if someone would like to host such website. Big numer of people could result in memory overuse on the server. But for the personal use is good enough. 
	Because I developed app locally the main folder is called downloader. It includes folders: pycache, static, templates, and app.py. 
	App.py is the main file that is allowing the whole backend of the app to run. App uses flask, pytube, os, instaloader and shutil. Flask is for the server to run. Pytube is the third party library for downloading the YouTube videos. I was not sure if in CS50 final project we can use third party library but I did not find anywhere this to be written + I saw that other final project were similar downloaders. OS is for removing files from the server after they are returned to the user. Instaloader is a library for downloading posts from instagram, shutil is for „zipping” the files. Because the instaloader downloads the whole post it returns the folder with few files inside. In order to send them to the user folder needs to be changed to .zip file. App.py consists of 3 main functions index, YouTube_download and instagram_download. This helps index function to be more organised. On 1 website there are 2 forms I had to distinguish if user is submitting the request for YouTube or instagram. At first I created 2 additional routes that managed it but later I used in 2 forms hidden values with the same name but different values. This allows me to request for the value of the hidden input and by checking the value know which form was submitted. It makes the code much more readable + in case of creating bigger software creating multiple routes is not efficient due to the need of creating dozens of route names. After the server knows which form was submitted YouTube_download or instagram_download is used. FIle is downloaded to the server, sent to the client and finally removed from the server. 
	Templates folder includes only one file „index.html” because the website is only one page. HTML sets forms, the layout using bootstrap, makes the website responsive using HTML code for that, sets utf-8
character set and links to the external CSS file. 
	Folder named static includes all the images + styles.css with some CSS improvements to the website. 
	Pycashe folder was not created by me it was created automatically by flask and it holds the cache of the website inside. 
	Thank you for CS50 course. I learned a lot during last 3 months. YT/IG downloader will be very useful form me when I travel without internet.


